---
layout: post
title:      "My Rails Journey."
date:       2020-03-10 23:00:03 +0000
permalink:  my_rails_journey
---


Coding is hard, but coding alone is harder. My rails journey was brutal but it made me believe in myself and in the end, I got satisfaction from being able to build a working Rails application. It's always an incredible feeling when you get some code you've been working on for a few hours or days or months (not kidding) to finally work. Even getting a different error message becomes a pleasant surprise. At the start of my project, I had configuration problems which prohibited me from opening my rails server. No matter what I tried or who I contacted, nothing seemed to work so I decided to move on with the curriculum. Eventually, I finished my JavaScript section with an empty Rails project in my portfolio. I needed to get a move on. When I FINALLY got my server working (I don't even remember how it happened to this point, that being said a small change made a huge difference somewhere in my code), I finally started to backtrack on the rails section and relearning everything from square one. It was tough, I had just finished a completely different language (JS), but with more and more practice and more and more googling and asking, I started to get a hang of it. 
What gave me the most trouble, and still does, I think, is reading documentation. Really reading it. I have a tendency to be impatient so when I find documentation pages I can become distracted by other things or not read carefully or not read up to the core of what I'm searching for. This leads to me trying to fix things blindly, repeating things and forgetting that I've tried things already because of my experimentational approach. Another block I seem to have is asking for help. Although you can't really ask for help with the project, something that I don't agree with to be completely honest (especially for those who are part-time students and/or remote students) it becomes very frustrating very easily to be left alone with other students who are struggling just as hard. Maybe it is a good idea afterall to be left in alone in order to survive. Maybe this weeds people out of the program. In any case I had a lot of struggling with the project but in the end it was so worth it. In the end, I could say that I made a working application. Sure it's primitive, but I'm not a developer yet. This project made me grow as a person and as a student. It made me struggle the most out of any project yet. It made me persevere and in the end I was proud of myself. Was it worth struggling for 4 months? Probably not. But it was a mind-expanding and soul-fulfilling journey none the less. And it put a lot into perspective. I realized that I am the only one standing in my way. At first that was a frightening concept, but now I find it as a relief because it's something that I can control. 
